Chapter 4, beginning in verse 2.
Continue earnestly in prayer, being vigilant in it with thanksgiving.
Meanwhile, praying also for us that God would open to us a door for the Word to speak the mystery of Christ, for which I am also in chains.
That I may make it manifest as I ought to speak.
Walk in wisdom toward those who are outside Redeeming the time let your speech Always be with grace Seasoned with salt that you may know how you ought to answer each one This is the word of God for the people of God Amen, my God add his blessing to the reading of this word.
You may be seated
So if you try to drive from Paducah to Illinois, there are two routes.
The hard way and the easy way.
An easy way has become the hard way lately.
As I-24 bridge has become one of those crazy situations where you actually have to plan to cross it and win and how long it's going to have to wait.
Now we have had a reprieve
But that's about to end as they close one full side and do one lane traffic on the one side and then the other as they finish the topping of it.
But to make matters worse if you've been following the news this week, a nice little barge hit it, knocked some debris off the bridge and it was shut down again.
Can you imagine that bridge being shut down for about six to 12 hours that day this week?
And all of that being directed across the report bridge.
I think it'd have been quicker to go to St. Louis and around or to Japa and through Wycliffe to get to Bedouka from Metropolis or just walk across the railroad bridge and help the trains not come in.
But can you imagine though how important that bridge is to us
And we, when we travel, we like to think that the bridges along the route are going to be there, and they're going to be steady.
As a matter of fact, when we were at the World War II Museum a few, about two months ago, we learned about what happened at Normandy Beach.
And they had this great plan, and part of that plan was to blow up the bridges.
The bridges that the German troops relied on to get supplies and reinforcements
to the beach where the invasion was going to happen.
So they had to blow up bridges to stop the supply line.
And the Germans didn't have an alternate plan around those bridges to get people there.
So they were stuck and surrounded, shall we say.
But it was not an easy victory, although hard fought.
It was won by the Allies and the United States.
So you see, because those bridges weren't there, the Germans realized these are necessary and needed.
And we already knew that.
That's why we took them out.
I no longer take the I-24 bridge for granted.
For years, it was just a way to get it back and forth to Illinois.
Never thought about it.
But now, we think about it, don't we?
If you're not sure what I mean by that, Palestine has a spring,
a picnic and a fall picnic and sometimes one of those is at Fort Massack and we said we're not going there while that bridge is like that because we don't even know if we can get there or how long it will take or if anybody can get there with the food or anything like that.
So we've had to change plans on how we do things.
That's because of a bridge.
A bridge if it doesn't do what it's supposed to do no longer is effective for what it was intended.
So when we go to Metropolis, and I imagine if you do as well, you have a backup plan of the Brookport Bridge.
It is not a well-desired backup plan because sometimes wide loads or trucks come across and you gotta wait.
And sometimes people don't wait and then it's an even longer delay.
It's not great, in my mind, the Brookport Bridge, but it'll do in a pinch as long as it'll keep running.
But why am I talking about bridges in the first place?
What's so important about those bridges to bring us to our mind the relevance of bridges at all?
Well, you see, a bridge doesn't erase the distance between two places.
That distance remains constant.
It only makes that distance crossable when the bridge works and is in place.
But bridges can also occur in relationships.
Two people who are distant are not close to each other or don't know each other.
So we have to cross a bridge of trust to engage with somebody that we don't know or that we have odds with.
Where rivers or canyons divide, a bridge declares connection is still possible when there's a bridge and people willing to cross it.
This is also true for the kingdom of God
wherever relationships, backgrounds, or beliefs, separate people, Jesus positions his church to be the bridge.
He asks us this because he desires that we connect with all people.
Paul became all things to all men.
A bridge is simply this, a connecting point with somebody.
a place to begin to connect or to cross to them or them to us.
Yet there are many people who won't even do that for any number of reasons.
We may have gotten hurt in a relationship or a situation or the future things that remind us of that past pain and it causes us to be hesitant and guarded to move forward.
Even if that person is brand new to us or the situation has nothing to do with how we feel or think that they will react.
A bridge for me that was relevant was last June when I trusted a pastor in Malawi to be at the airport who he said he was and not some sort of whacked out cycle because I had not met him other than online and through teachings
that I trusted that God was doing this work.
But I was still nervous until I saw him at the airport with his wife and about 20 women singing and celebrating our presence.
At that moment I said, God, this is going to be good.
Until then I wasn't sure.
But I had trusted that it was a genuine relationship and I wasn't going to get left or Richard stranded or worse.
But I had all these backup plans in my head.
What are we going to do if that isn't going to be the way it's supposed to be?
How are we going to get back?
How do we protect ourselves?
All I know is I breathed a sigh of relief and the connection was real.
The connection that we trusted God made and put in place was worth crossing over.
And that, after almost two days of flying and airport waiting,
Why society is changing so rapidly?
Are you searching for the reasons why?
Join us on the Rise Radio Podcast.
For a journey of discovery, have we wrestled with the latest social narratives, belief systems, ancient prophecies, strange phenomena, and spirituality.
Your worldview will never be the same again.
Rise above the noise.
Visit riseradio.net today.
The gospel is a bridge.
Did you know that?
It is.
In Ephesians it talks about it in chapter 2, verses 13 through 16, Paul writes, but now in Christ Jesus, you who once far off had been brought near by the blood of Christ.
For he himself is our peace who has made both one and has broken down the middle wall of separation.
Having abolished in his flesh the enmity, that is the law of commandments contained in ordinances, so as to creating himself one new man from the two thus making peace.
And that he might reconcile them both to God in one body through the cross, thereby putting to death the enmity, the odds.
You who were once far off had been brought near by the blood of Christ.
That's us.
We didn't have Christ.
We were a Gentile and are a Gentile and had no place in the kingdom of God because that was for the Jewish and the Israelites until Christ blood bridged and connected us.
Praise God for that too.
Our reconciling peace is Jesus Christ.
That's who gives us that peace.
He's broken down every wall of prejudice that separated us from the Jewish community.
So if the gospel reconciles heaven and earth, it can reconcile neighbor and neighbor, family and family, foe and enemy.
The gospel can do that.
It can connect them because the gospel is a bridge.
It's made for connecting.
It's made to establish, to reestablish, to heal, to restore wounds and the gap between
is sometimes a wound, sometimes it's a mindset, whatever that is, the gospel says it's possible to recreate and transform.
When the church builds walls instead of bridges, which is exactly the opposite of what we're called to do, barriers often form quietly.
Not from malice,
but from maintenance.
Preference becomes exclusion.
I prefer to do it this way and other people don't and so they feel excluded.
If you look at a castle, a moat isolates the castle within.
And James says, how can you claim to have faith if you favor some people over others?
So favoritism fractures fellowship, building a moat to protect yourself
In a castle, precludes that you need a drawbridge to determine who can come in and cannot.
I even know that most of those stories about moats, they have alligators in them.
I'm thinking they should put crocodiles, they're more dangerous.
But I don't think the people in the castle would appreciate those getting loose, especially not coming across that drawbridge.
But bridges require humility.
They also require a desire to connect.
Not only that, but they also require a willingness to welcome those we may not understand or know.
Sometimes people behave in ways that confuse us.
But the bridge says, I'm going to invest in them.
I'm going to cross over to who they are and learn about them.
and hopefully give them an opportunity to cross back over to learn about who Jesus is and be disciple.
We can connect out of interest in knowing who that person is and what they're about.
Sometimes that's what it takes.
Someone to be genuinely interested in somebody else.
I think God creates that in us too, a curiosity about, I wonder why they're that way, I wonder who they are, what's their story.
Yesterday I spoke Jimmy Adams' memorial service and I read a very long obituary that Krista, his daughter, had written and had talked a lot about all the things that he knew and talked about and how he was a wise man.
Well, I didn't learn any of those things till after he passed and I had a long conversation with Krista and her brother David.
Once I had that conversation, I knew what he was all about, but it was too late.
I had had some conversation interaction with them at their home on Wednesdays after Bible study and on a few other occasions and at church.
But that was it.
But you see, Jim is a kind of person that didn't share knowledge unless you asked.
I didn't know him that way.
I didn't know that was who he was.
So I didn't know which questions to ask.
And I may have been a little curious about who he was and what he did, but I didn't know how much he knew about things.
So I didn't ask those questions because my curiosity wasn't peak because I didn't invest as much time as I could have had I had it.
So what I'm trying to say is if you're interested in knowing someone, you have to begin to dig deeper into who they are, what they're about, what matters to them, what gifts they have for the world.
And until you get to that, you really just surface.
So building a bridge means I'm not just crossing over to someone to connect with them.
I want to learn who they are and how God has blessed them to be unique in this world.
What makes them tick?
What kind of thing do they know that makes them different from everybody else?
Those kind of things are curiosity.
And once you begin to learn that about somebody and you're genuinely interested in them, they are more than likely to ask you the same thing and cross back over the bridge to where you are.
to connect with you as well.
Because they know you're not asking for selfish reasons.
You're asking because you really want to know.
You really want to connect.
And when someone wants to connect with you, it stirs something up inside of you that says, this is good.
This is necessary.
And I want to be engaged in this conversation deeper.
Think of it like this.
When you're courting, it's what, you know, before you're married, you're courting, you're trying to learn the other person.
You want to see them in all situations and see what kind of material they are, you know, to get mad what they're like, with their joyful, if they're around kids, around adults, elderly people, how they respond in different situations, because you want to know what kind of response they're going to be.
And so while you're doing that, they're doing the same thing with you, because you're connecting.
Two people who don't know each other build a bridge of connection to know each other and plan a life together or plan something together that makes a difference for their lives.
This is what a bridge is.
The thing about Jesus though is when he made bridges, he didn't do it like we would expect.
He crossed every line that was drawn in the sand.
In John 4, the woman at the well, he crossed lines of gender, race, and reputation.
He sat with her where others would not sit and spoke where others were required by custom and tradition to stay silent, to not make a bridge or make that conversation.
Jews would not be caught dead talking to Samaritans, but he was doing it.
He was building a bridge.
Now tell you why, because no matter the Jewish opinion of the Samaritans, God thought they were redeemable and worthy of it.
And the Son of God thought so too.
Cross lines didn't he?
Jesus turned uncomfortable places and spaces into holy ones.
That well became a holy place.
If you walk in obedience,
Jesus will ensure those uncomfortable places in your life can become a bridge and become a holy place The truth is bridge builders walk both directions on the bridge In second Corinthians chapter 5 Jesus is being
discussed and talked about by Paul and how we are a new creation in Christ.
And then he says this, that God was in Christ reconciling us to Himself and then giving us the ministry of reconciling others.
We became ambassadors.
So the moment God reconciled you to Himself in Jesus Christ, you were recruited.
You became an ambassador for the kingdom of God.
Paul said in 1 Corinthians 9, 22, I have become all things to all men.
Now this might be the hardest work for you in your life because you're not comfortable with uncomfortable situations.
But the gospel and faith in Jesus Christ and being a bridge builder calls you out of your comfort zones into places
You wouldn't have gone otherwise.
I can think of many people who, in the name of Christ, went to taverns to preach the gospel.
And people seeing that happen would say, oh, well, they're going to a place they shouldn't be going.
And when confronted in question, they said, this is where the gospel is needed.
I saw that happen in a time I was pastor at.
people start going into the local tavern preaching the gospel.
Got the tavern owner converted, he closed down the tavern, now it's a church.
So you think, no, I can't do that.
Well, what if I'd asked you to do that?
Get out of your comfort zone.
When you keep in mind, you're building a bridge and you're helping another person find hope by what you're doing, the task in front of you seems a lot more important than the hesitancy inside of you.
It isn't always easy.
I'm not saying it is.
But with that mindset, building your bridges is something you do without God.
Or God sending you there or asking you to go.
We go because He tells us to go.
And the bridges we build are built with compassion and courage.
Compassion
gives the bridge its strength because we are not being judgmental but welcoming encourage gives it the span because sometimes it takes a lot of courage to build a bridge did you know i don't know if it's still true today but many years ago there was bridge built near dixon spring state park you probably wouldn't even notice it because it's got such a smooth road across it what you're crossing but just
Just to the east of the 146-145 intersection, there's a bridge that goes across some people called Devil's Canyon, Shadow Canyon.
We call it Ghost Hollow.
And that bridge goes to the entrance to the park on the other side.
That bridge for the longest time, maybe still, is the longest single structure open arch bridge right there.
And it covers a huge, deep,
Canyon.
Did you know that that was that close to home?
That was in my backyard.
Front yard, side yard, whatever you want to call it.
We lived a half mile from it.
And that bridge is very, very long.
And underneath it, when you go under it, you can see that this thing is huge.
But you would never know because you're just in Southern Illinois.
What's there, right?
That was there.
So that bridge, that span is concrete.
And that concrete has to have solid structure.
When you're building a concrete bridge, you've got to have a courage to build that thing to know it's going to uphold and do what it's supposed to do and what it's designed to do.
So that takes a little bit of courage and know how I'm planning on how to build that.
So that encourages what says, we've got to go the whole distance.
And sometimes that distance is immense and it takes courage across that span.
and build that bridge, but it was important for that bridge to be built.
In Jude chapter, there is no chapter in Jude, look at Jude, verses 22 and 23, Paul says, on some have compassion, make a distinction, but others say with fear pulling them out of the fire, hating even the garment defiled by the flesh.
In other words, what Jude is saying is show mercy and rescue others.
Because a lot of people don't even know that they're lost.
One of the things that we sometimes forget to talk about is that an unforgiving Christian is setting themselves up for a really bad walk with Christ.
Because forgiveness is a basic foundation of the Christian faith.
We don't harbor resentment and carry bitterness and unforgiveness.
It is not mentioned in the Kingdom of God to keep that.
But some of us justify that stuff, right?
And so when a Christian is harboring that and we need to build a bridge to them, it can be difficult, but it takes courage to walk through that, to go through that with them and show them and not say, hey, you're not acting like a Christian.
That's the most
tempting way to go about it.
You're not doing what Jesus said, so you're just messing up your life and you need to fix that.
It's saying, hey, what's going on?
Let me walk with you through this for a while.
Let me show mercy and rescue you and help you to see that it's hurting your life.
Bridge builders stand in attention with a foot on each side of the gap.
Not in weakness, but in faithfulness.
because God has asked him to build that bridge.
And why do you got to spread to cover that span?
The more courage it takes to know that if you go too far, you might slip.
So this is the truth.
When we lose our compassion, we lose our ability to love well.
When we start becoming judgmental rather than compassionate, we don't love very well anymore.
God is seeking those to love others the same way Jesus loves them.
And that means building a bridge.
Building a bridge isn't cheap, I promise you, it is not.
There's no way, I don't even know the process for determining what it's like, how to know if it's safe to structure any of that,
But the cost of building a bridge and that connection isn't cheap.
Connection costs time, comfort, and even can cause misunderstanding.
For example, we have it in our own backyard.
They're talking about building a new bridge over a Wycliffe.
Some of us are saying, well, it's going to be built right here.
And others are saying, well, it can't be built.
There's got to be built over here.
And so we don't know exactly how it's going to look.
or the construction of the road before we knew what it was going to be like around uh... cabbal in the center what that's going to look like we don't know until it's actually started the land clearing and we get a better picture so there's misunderstanding sometimes but when you're trying to do something to connect people together it's going to take some time it's going to take some discomfort and sometimes people aren't going to understand what you're trying to do
because they're so guarded.
Nowadays, it is.
It's difficult for even young children to trust.
A young kid rides my suburban, rides it every day.
One day I offered him a piece of gum.
You know what he said?
My mama said, don't take anything from strangers.
I said, I'm going to give you a ride to school every day.
I may be strange, but I'm not stranger to you.
And he goes, I can't take it.
Next day, your son said, I'm a stranger, so he can't have gum.
And she goes, you silly, he gives you a right school every day.
You know who he is.
He's not a stranger.
Learn what a stranger is.
But we're so guarded that we don't know who's a stranger and who's a friend anymore, or how to tell the difference.
We've become, I think, a society based on fear rather than trying to connect.
But Jesus
By the blood of his cross, everything in heaven and earth is brought back to himself.
That's what he tells us in Colossians chapter 1 verse 20.
So Jesus bore nails to bridge the gap.
We can bear some discomfort, can't we?
To do the same thing.
And something they're so afraid to start from being anxious about the connecting part and being around different people that they complain it's too hard when they haven't even tried yet.
It's too hard, we haven't even tried.
I saw a child one day in school looking at a blank sheet of paper and the teacher asked them to draw something and the kid said it's too hard and the teacher said your paper is still blank.
You don't know if it's hard until you start, until you actually put effort and you don't know how hard it is.
It might be easier for you than you think.
It might flow naturally.
for you.
But if you never start and say it's too hard because you're uncertain of what it's going to be like when you're done, you'll never know.
So there is a cost to get it out of your comfort zone a little bit.
But part of the cost is just starting, just doing it.
And knowing that the love of God is rising up when you're doing that.
because barriers fall when the love of God raises up.
It breaks down the walls.
You look at, and maybe you've never thought about this, in Acts chapter two, when the church was started and Peter was preaching and the Holy Spirit fell, and everybody there said, well, look,
We heard it in our own language, and we're all different languages here gathered in Jerusalem, but we heard it all in our own language, and 3,000 people were added to church that day.
But what you don't understand is that they all spoke different languages and could not connect.
The Holy Spirit connected them by the love of God on that day.
These people said, I don't know you, I can't even understand what you're saying, but on that day they all were won by the gospel.
That's the love of God expressed.
So that love of God
rose up and broke down the barriers that these people had with each other.
Three thousand people of people who would not relate to each other because of culture and language joined in the same church.
How many different cultures were there?
How many different faces, colors, nationalities were there on the day of Pentecost, the day they had to be there for the festival?
Thousands and thousands of people were in Jerusalem and some people would never associate with some of them except for festivals but that day The love of God expressed to the Holy Spirit They join the same thing and said we belong as Christ and we belong to each other as well That is a miracle to me the perfect love of God casts out fear So if God's calling you to it
He's gonna drive out the fear behind it and say, listen, I'm gonna drive that away.
Just rest in my love.
So a fear builds fences, love builds friendships.
He's turning us from God's alienated from God, isolated away from Christ into his friends.
Not only his friends that we're now ambassadors, spokespeople from being
No part to being spokespeople for the kingdom of God and Jesus Christ.
Love is the language of the uninvited people.
So you can be loved before you speak truth because they won't receive the truth of Christ without thinking its judgment if they don't trust you to love them first.
seeing a barrier fall and newly connected people filled with joy.
That's one of the greatest experiences I've ever had.
To see the look on the face of somebody expecting rejection, isolation and disregard, yet experiencing loving acceptance is one of the most amazing things you will ever see.
They don't know how to respond because it's never happened.
And they go, I don't know why it's happening, but this is great.
They don't know how to even express the love of God poured out on them because they've never experienced it in real ways.
But when it happens, the look of fear on their face, it's like this.
It looks, this fear melts into peace and safety.
When all of a sudden this fear look of like a deer in headlight and then they realize this is really, really love, it just melts.
And the whole countenance changes because of bridge connected in a real way.
Let me tell you something.
When you see that, you'll know people can't think that look.
You can't pretend
to feel accepted in love when you were in fear moments before.
You can't.
Loving acceptance when someone experiences that looks like nothing else.
That look will transform people, but will also transform you when you see how it affected another.
Once you see it happen, you go, who else?
Who else?
needs this.
So how do we do it?
You know, make sure you told us we need to build bridges.
How do we do it?
What are the steps?
You know, we want a process, right?
Well, the process starts with you and it starts with this.
Look inside your life, gratitude, your mindset,
And identify any barrier or wall that you have that hinders connection because you don't trust in that area.
Where you put a wall that says this is unsafe.
Question that to see if that's actually God put that there or your fear has.
So you gotta start with the inner stuff inside of you.
And that's not always easy, but you can say it like this.
God, look inside me and see what's keeping me from being fully open to your love being expressed through me.
And then the next thing after that is engage just into one person, some relationship that you can establish, or this art is established, that moves you beyond your comfort zone that you had.
Just one, not asking you to go out and change the world.
Just ask you to step out of your comfort zone.
And we need to pray.
That's the third thing.
We need to pray over the divisions in our community.
You say, well, we don't have a lot of visions in our community.
We do.
Even if we don't see them or know them or talk about them, there is definitely divisions in our community.
And our political climate and our world climate and the social climate has made that more so than ever.
The people on one side of the fence on the other and there's nowhere close to the middle anymore.
There's division.
We just don't talk about it very often.
And when we do see it, we go, where did that come from?
So we also need to model connection.
We need to reach across the divides in our lives, in our world, both publicly and personally.
That we as Christians are called to be the ones to build the bridge that way.
But let me tell you something about that, a bridge, all right?
I said it connects.
And that's the truth.
But once it connects,
Something else has to happen.
People have to cross it.
You can't just say, oh, I built the bridge.
Now they want to come over.
They can't.
Well, guess what?
You had to go over.
Why don't you go over and come back?
They had to come over and then they can go back or you can meet in the middle.
There's a bunch of way, but crossing the bridge is required.
You can't just build it and say, I hope they come over.
I put out an olive branch.
Now they need to accept it and do the rest.
When we build a bridge, we cross first.
We are the ones who know what it's like to be separated from Christ and to reach out to those around us, walking in this favor with God and others that we have to step open at bridge.
We have to say, listen, I'm over here with you to learn and understand why what's going on in your life.
So I can walk you across the bridge to hope the Christ and transformation.
This is what God asks us to do.
And when we align our lives with that, He's positioned us to welcome all by making sure that they made us welcome in their home first, because they wanted us there.
And that takes some work sometimes, doesn't it?
But we go.
We build the bridge and we cross over there first.
Yeah, sometimes you've got to go the long way.
We've proven we'll take that Proport Bridge for other things.
Did you pray with me?
Lord, you bridge the cat between heaven and us, between your kingdom and the world we lived in.
And yes, so we have walls built up and gaps between us and others and gaps between us and full life you have for us.
So I'm asking you to help us be a bridge building people, to help us be compassionate, to be courageous, to be creative in the ways we connect and to be diligent, to be willing to take things a long way, not just the easy way.
And Lord, let our church be known as a pathway to peace, not a fortress of fear, but a place where people can connect.
I ask you that in the name of Jesus.
Amen.
stand for a closing fee on the 128th in the first and last purchase.